All right.
So we've now defined a slice of U.S. estate to store all degrees.
And of course, it's going to start out as an empty array that will then be populated by the array we
receive from our degrees end point.
But of course, in order to update the View Store State, we're going to need to write a mutation.
So here in our mutations test file in our source store directory, we're going to need a mutation to
receive our degrees and overwrite that existing degrees property.
As always, I want to follow a TDD approach.
So let's first write a test.
So I'm going to open up my mutations test.
That's file.
And here you can see we have tests for all of our mutations, log in, user, receive jobs, etc. And
I imagine that our new mutation is going to be very similar to this one.
This is our test for the mutation that receives an array of jobs, which is similarly something we're
getting from reaching out to our mock back end.
So why don't we create a new test that's going to be very similar to this one, except of course, it's
going to receive an array of degree objects.
So right here I'm going to describe a new mutation that I want to have called receive degrees.
And I'm going to find an area function.
And instead of receiving jobs from an API response, it of course is going to receive degrees from the
API response.
Keep in mind, this is the mutation.
This is not the action where we're actually making the API call.
This is what the action will eventually run.
The mutation, rather, or commit is the technical view terminology.
This is the mutation that the action will eventually commit in order to take the data that it receives
from the backend and actually provide it to this mutation to update The View Star State.
So in other words, this is the part where we already have the data and it's simply going to flow into
this mutation method.
All right.
So I'm going to start out with a starting state.
Right here.
And I'm going to use the helper function called create state.
And why don't I open that up and show it to you on the left hand side here?
So let me drag that.
That's coming from our utils file in our test directory.
And remember that what create state does is it simply invokes the existing state function that initializes
the state of our view store.
So that's going to automatically have a degree's property.
But then we can also provide the config object right here to customize any specific properties.
So even though this is already going to have a degrees property set to an empty array, I'm going to
explicitly specified here as well as having a degrees property set to an empty array because I better
want to communicate what is going on in this test.
I want to communicate that my state is starting out with degrees empty or being an empty array, and
then the array will be populated.
So a reader has a better understanding of my starting state and my ending state.
All right.
So this doesn't change the tactical result of this thing right here, but it makes it more explicit
what is going on in our test.
Right.
So the next thing I obviously need to do is to create a degree object and invoke my eventual mutation
and pass in an array of that degree to make sure that the degrees property is set to that array.
So you'll notice that we have this create job helper function also defined on the file on the left.
And while I can define a degree object in line here, I think it'd be really smart right now to just
define a helper function as well to create a degree.
Because I can definitely see multiple tests having to rely on the need for a degree object.
So why not have this helper function that is then reusable across many parts of the app if needed?
So what I'm going to do here is follow a very similar approach to my create job helper function below.
I'm going to define a concept called create degree.
And it's going to accept a config.
And I can think, of course, will be an empty object.
And of course, what I want this to return is ultimately going to be an object of type degree.
So let's import our degree interface.
Luckily, we're already importing the job interface from the types file, and that's exactly where we
have our degree interface as well.
So right here I'm going to have my degree interface and remember that my config is going to be a object
of type partial degree.
The reason I'm going to do that is remember the Typekit partial type takes an interface and it makes
all of its properties optional.
I don't want to force a test to give me all the times a valid degree, because then a test may require
that that implementation would require a test.
Have many properties that perhaps I don't care about.
I want the test to be as flexible as possible and only have to feed in the properties that it wants
to care about or communicate about.
So I'm not going to make this a degree.
I'm going to make this a partial degree, which again is going to take our degree interface, which
has two properties and make both of them optional.
Then what I'm going to do is promise TypeScript that the create degree function itself is going to return
an object of type degree.
All right.
That's going to be the return date type.
Then finally, I'm going to actually provide my arrow function.
And in order to make an implicit return value here, I'm going to do my parentheses and my curly braces.
So I'm going to return an object from my create degree function.
And of course, TypeScript is unhappy because it says, Hey, you promised me a degree.
And that empty object you're giving me now needs these two properties, ID and degree.
So let's have an ID property.
That should be a number.
So let's give it a value like one.
And we also need a degree property and let's give that a value like bachelors.
And finally, of course, we need to allow a test to override either of these two properties if it wants
to.
So if the test passes those properties into me or into the create degree function in a config object,
I wanted to structure those config object properties right here so they overwrite idea degree.
If a test doesn't give me a config object or if it gives me an empty config object, we're simply going
to return the default.
But we allow each test to customize what it cares about.
All right.
So with that, we are able to import this create degree helper function in our mutations test file.
So right here I will add create degree and right here I can create a sample degree by using my helper
create degree function.
All right.
So there we go.
And of course, the next step is to run an actual mutation.
So I'm going to say on my mutations object, which is already imported.
Here's what it looks like right now.
I'm going to assume that I'm going to have a new function and that new function or method should be
called that received degrees.
And of course, whenever we have a mutation, the first argument will always be the existing view X
Store State, and that is represented by our starting state constant right here.
And then of course the second parameter is or any subsequent parameters are any custom arguments that
we want to pass in.
So the first parameter is always the view store state.
Afterwards, it's up to us.
So I obviously want to invoke this mutation with an argument of the actual degrees that we're receiving.
So what I'm going to do here is make an array just consisting of my single degree, because remember
from the API perspective, it's going to be an array of degrees in maybe one degree or three or five
or ten, but it's always going to be an array.
So even though I'm creating one degree here, I'm going to store it in an array because that's what
I expect the mutation to receive.
I finally, after my mutation has done running, I will expect that on my starting state object.
There is of course that degrees property and it should be updated to equal the array of degrees that
I provided to the mutation.
So this should be the exact same array of a single degree if everything worked out correctly.
All right.
So now, of course, our test will fail because it's going to say, hey, I don't have a received degrees
method on my mutations object right here.
And this is actually a TypeScript violation.
It's not even just violation.
TypeScript says, Hey, you gave me this mutations object, which I know you imported from right here.
That object doesn't have that received degrees property, so something is going wrong.
So of course let's make that a reality.
So the first thing I'm going to do is we need to create a new constant to store the name of the mutation.
So I'm going to go into my constants file and right here let's create a new section down below.
I'm going to call it degrees.
And we'll create a new constant for our mutation names to export.
Konst will call it receive degrees and it'll be equal to a string of received degrees.
There we go.
Save that.
Move back to our mutations file and here I'm going to import my receive degrees constant.
There it is.
And that allows me to, of course, define a method with that name using the constant as the dynamic
method name.
So right here, just to keep it close to our receive jobs mutation as well, I'm going to provide my
mutation name in square brackets.
So of course, TypeScript is going to substitute that constant value, that string as the name.
Then I'm going to define my actual method.
And of course, my method will accept two parameters, just like right here.
The first is going to be the store state, and of course that is going to be a type global state which
we already have imported.
And then my second parameter is going to be that array of degrees.
So we can call that parameter degrees.
And what is that going to be?
A type of it's going to be an array of degree objects.
Well, that means we need to import our degree interface.
But luckily, we have our types file right here in line ten, and that is the file that also happens
to have our degree interface.
And it's singular because it's remember, it's an interface representing one degree object.
And my degrees parameter right here will be of type array of those degrees.
So right here, I'm going to say degree array.
All right.
And then in the body of this, let me just say this to show you that our test to now update, we should
get a new error that says, hey, the state is not actually what it should be at the end of the mutation
because we obviously didn't overwrite the property.
So now you can see it's going to say, hey, you told me that it should be an array of that one degree.
Instead, I'm still getting an empty array, which makes sense because we're not doing anything in the
received degrees mutation.
So our original starting state of an empty array for the degrees property stays the same.
So of course we're using TDD here to drive to our eventual solution.
And that means we have to take our state, we have to overwrite its degrees properties with the degrees
array that is flying in.
Of course, that will eventually be provided by my action, but right now it's being provided by my
test.
So I'm going to save that.
Let it run.
Let all my tests execute.
And with that, I think we should be in a good spot.
There we go.
All right.
So now we've added our received degrees mutation.
It's well tested.
We also created our helper create degree function that we can utilize if we do any other work with degrees
in other tests.
And so I'd say we've made a lot of progress in this lesson.
All right.
That's all there is to cover here.
So I will see you in the next one.